Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. Dear
Dharma friends, today we, as Buddhist practitioners, will practice chanting sutras and meditation
to contemplate the merits
of the thirteen ascetic practices on the anniversary of the Venerable Mahakasyapa, the
foremost ascetic
of the Buddha.
Dear Dharma friends, today we
have read an excerpt from the Sutra on Ascetic Practices and the
Benefits of Asceticism, as taught by our teacher.
In this section, we will focus
on the virtues of those who
can successfully practice asceticism.
Dear Dharma friends,
how can we believe in the true Dharma
of the
Buddha? This is difficult for
beginners. Among the ten conditions for successfully
practicing
asceticism,
health is essential. The remaining factors
depend on the first:
faith. If we have
faith, we will develop.  A person with a
sincere heart and a sense of shame, if we have faith,
will develop diligence
in studying and seeking true benefit. What is the true benefit of a person
with faith in Buddhism? It
is the desire to find
happiness and liberation for oneself and for all sentient beings.
Furthermore, a person with faith
will be enthusiastic and mature in their
practice, never wavering. A person
with faith will diligently study and practice
meditation to develop
wisdom. A person with faith will be
eager to learn knowledge. A person with
faith will also be persistent and steadfast. A person with faith
will diligently
practice, so they will rarely seek others. A
person with faith will dwell in a compassionate
heart. Therefore, the
important thing is that we must first have
faith in Buddhism.
Today, I will share this with you,
dear fellow practitioners, so that you may have
faith in Buddhism. With this faith, you
will have all the necessary elements to practice the
ascetic path, except for one essential element.
Regarding health, of course,
we must be healthy and free from disabilities,
because if we are disabled, it
will be difficult, or even impossible, to practice the first Dharma.
Now, let's contemplate and think about it this
way: We have a
family, and we live in constant worry, with
worries always outweighing
happiness. If we have parents,
we are always worried about them, fearing they might get
sick. That's if we are filial children,
worried about our parents, afraid when they get
sick. We have spouses and
children, and we worry a lot, worrying that they will get
sick, that they will be in
danger. Even if they just sneeze or have a runny nose, we worry. If
they encounter something on the street, we
worry. We
fear they might leave us. Living in a
family with so many fears, always living
in fear and
anxiety. Then there's the worry of not earning enough money to
support our children, not earning enough to provide for
our lives. We worry about not being as well-off as our
friends, we worry about being ridiculed.
If we sit down and contemplate, we will understand this worry.
We see that it's true that not
a single moment passes
without worry, even in the morning,
getting dressed for work, putting on
makeup – we're still worried and afraid of what others might say,
right? We're overwhelmed by worry. Only when we
contemplate these sufferings can
we become weary of them, and only then can we
desire liberation. Because we
desire liberation, we
delve deeper into Buddhist teachings to
practice them, to escape suffering. We see
the meaning of worry when we have a
family life. Today, in the first part,
we will contemplate this. The
worries that lurk around us when
we seek happiness in a marriage.
The more we love, the more we
worry. This worry
overwhelms us, and we have a
happiness that is not real. We worry about earning
money, and once we have money,
we feel happy. We
worry about others, about our spouse's illness, about our children's illness,
about our spouse's lack of
success.  Worrying about one's child's lack of
success—that worry only lessens
when one achieves a little success. But
in this life, what success is achieved without worry? And that worry comes with
something even greater: fear. Fear of the one
you love getting sick, fear of the one you love failing, fear of the one
you
love being sad and miserable, fear of your child getting sick, fear of
your child not succeeding. From worry, it
turns into fear. In our hearts, we are
always afraid—fear of not being
happy, fear of not being
loved, and even more fear of getting
sick, fear of getting old, fear of
dying—so many fears.
That's talking about the emotions
within a family. Now, let's
talk about reputation.
Imagine a painter; you
stand for them to paint
you, and your image
is expressed for everyone to see
through the painter's hands—your
eyes, nose, mouth, and facial features.
If the painter is skilled and
appreciates you, then...  We portray
ourselves with our cheerful, lovely faces,
but if the artist does
n't like us, if they write or
draw a picture criticizing us, they bring out our sullen expressions, they
bring out
our faults and flaws so that others will
scorn us. That's talking about our reputation;
our reputation in this world is
built on the perspective of
others. That reputation is like a
picture of us that's been painted; it
has no influence, it doesn't benefit us
in the present moment.
The praise people give us is
like a painting on a wall
that the artist has painted; it doesn't affect
our feelings of hunger, cold, fullness, sickness, aging,
death, sunstroke, or
fear. That praise has no
substance, no benefit in
our present moment. That's how reputation is;
our reputation is created from
the perspective of others, while our
suffering is due to our changing emotions of joy, sorrow, love, and
hate, which are controlling and
harming us.  Therefore, reputation
is something external to us;
it makes us anxious and fearful,
sometimes preventing us from living authentically.
If people elevate us
too highly, we sometimes become attached to
that reputation, leading us to live a life of pretense and
hypocrisy. We fear losing
that reputation, but in reality, it has
no effect, no benefit, and
no value to us in the
present moment. That's talking about reputation. Then there's friendship.
Friendships depend on
our success or failure. If we
succeed, we have many friends, but
when we fail, we have no friends,
sometimes even family. That's how the
world is. Then there's
our house and possessions; they
cause us anxiety and
worry if we cling to our
place of residence. We
must have a
home,
a family to return
to. We become dependent on them,
and if the house falls apart,
we are left with nothing.  We will suffer immensely, or if
we cannot find a place to live,
we feel utterly alone and
helpless. Then we
contemplate that suffering arises from attachment to worldly things like
spouses and children, attachment to fame, attachment to friendships, attachment
to possessions, and attachment to a
fixed dwelling place. All of these things
bring
suffering in the present moment—the constant worry
and fear of not having what we desire. We
lack affection,
friendship, fame, and
a place to
live. This constant worry and fear persists.
From this, we understand that the
ascetic practice of the Dhuta path is the practice of solitary living, free from
all worry and
fear, achieving liberation. This liberation allows one to
beg for alms,
eat whatever food is available, sleep
anywhere, and not be attached to
worldly emotions or controlled by anything. This
brings benefit and
happiness in the present moment.  Dear fellow practitioners, today, please
contemplate in this order: Contemplate the feelings of satiety, fear, and anxiety
related to
personal emotions;
observe the delusion and attachment to
fame; how fame controls you; how
you are constantly anxious and fearful;
reflect on the fear and anxiety you experience in
wanting to cling
to friends and family;
how you suffer
and are dependent on
possessions and shelter; what you worry and fear about—
this is the object of
contemplation. From there, we can hope to
practice the ascetic path, because the
ascetic path will eliminate all that satiety and
fear,
bringing peace and happiness. Let us
see how noble the ascetic path is; it
brings happiness in the
present moment for the practitioner. It is
very beneficial in eliminating all anxiety, fear, and
suffering for the
practitioner. We aspire to practice the ascetic path,
hoping that we may all
know about it, and that
everyone may have the opportunity to practice it, to
attain happiness, peace, and liberation
in the present moment. I wish you all a
successful meditation session and a joyful mind.  The joyful
aspiration towards liberation relies
on the ascetic practice of the Dhuta path.
This is the cause, but it is not a
small cause. This cause leads us through many lifetimes
on the right
path. We practice the Right Dharma. We reach Nirvana and
achieve Supreme Enlightenment. May all fellow
practitioners strive diligently. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. [
Music]
[Music]